So let's take a look at our first example.
We're gonna look at a painting
by Piet Mondrian and
we are going to code it with CSS Grid.
So Piet Mondrian was
a painter in the 1930s.
You are probably familiar with his work.
It's very popular.
Here's Yves St Laurent, who turned
it into dresses in the 1960s but
it was originally a painting.
So let's take a look at that now.
Now, obviously laying out a painting
is a pretty limited type of exercise.
We're just gonna work with
big squares of color and
lay them out here on this
web page accordingly.
And we're going to wind up using
some absolute measurement.
We're gonna work with a lot of
pixels in this particular design.
I find that students like this exercise as
an introduction to Grid because everything
is very clear, and concise, and compact.
And we know exactly what
it is that we're building.
And so this is a great way to
start getting familiar with
the thinking that goes into CSS Grid.
Our HTML is very simple, we just have
a series of divs here because we have
absolutely no meaning in
this document whatsoever.
There's no need to use any
type of more interesting HTML.
So we have a div with a class of wrapper.
Inside of that we have seven divs.
And they have letters that
are associated with them.
And that's pretty easy HTML to remember.
So I'm just going to make my CSS window
here a little bit bigger inside of
our code pin.
Once again, those are available
from the course website.
If you take a look at
the Mondrian painting exercises,
there's a link to the code
pen right from that page.
Inside of this you'll see that I've
given you a little bit of starting code.
Here's our wrapper, I set a width and
a height on it because, again,
this is a painting, we want it to
look in a very specific kind of way.
In the real world,
I would not recommend setting a width and
a height necessarily on your grid,
definitely not a height.
Width, maybe, maybe not.
And I've given this
background image to use.
So this is the painting that
we are going to be coding.
And I've put in letters for all of the
cells that we're going to be working with.
So you can see exactly where we want all
of these boxes to wind up happening.
So the little letters that you see on
the top here in the rows, that's our code.
And then the bigger boxes that
are behind this, that is the painting.
As you see here I've given you a little
bit of starting code in the divs.
Every div has got a border on it,
color of white and
50% opacity so
that we can see both ourselves and
the painting behind along
with sort of a basic font.
So let's go ahead and
get started with this.
And as I told you, the syntax we wanna
think about is grid-row and grid-column.
We're gonna specify this for
each one of these cells inside
of this particular exercise.
So let's start with letter a.
What is going to be our grid-row and
our grid-column values here for letter a?
Well, probably the best place to start
is to think about how many rows and
how many columns we're gonna
work with in the first place.
So if we look at the painting here.
You'll see that we have one
row here with letter a,
one row here with letter b.
And then down here at the bottom,
we've actually got two more rows, one for
letter f and one for letter g.
So we have four rows, and
then how many columns do we have?
It looks like three columns going across.
So three columns, four rows.
So for letter a then, how many columns and
how many rows is it going to take up?
It's gonna occupy probably one column and
it's gonna occupy one row.
Which one?
Now we have to count.
So from here we start, remember
that our first line is just outside
of the drawing here, so
there's line number one.
Line number two is going to be
this one here between a and c.
Line number three is gonna be
way over here between e and f.
And line number four is all
the way on the outside.
Likewise in the rows we have our first
line up here before the painting starts,
that's line one.
Line two is between a and b, and
line three is going to be between b and d.
Line four is outside of the painting.
So for letter a,
what is our position here for this?
We're gonna have a grid-row of 1/2, right?
We're gonna have it go from 1 to 2 and
we're gonna have our grid-column
going from 1 to 2 as well.
And I forgot to do something.
Did anyone catch?
I've started to declare what the children
are going to do without declaring what
the parent needs to do, haven't eye?
All right, so let's go back and
put that in place.
Here on this outside div on the wrapper
itself, let's go ahead and add to this,
display, grid.
There we go.
And we're just gonna leave it at that for
the moment.
We can specify a grid-gap if you want.
Grid-gap, oops, sorry, gap.
I have to remember that the new
syntax is just plain gap so
hopefully I won't make that
mistake too many times.
It's just plain gap, no longer grid-gap.
And the values here can be 30 pixels,
20 pixels.
And so that'll give us some
space both horizontally and
vertically once we start to specify
all of the rest of our values here.
Now, we haven't told
Grid how many columns and
how many rows we're
ultimately going to have.
So Grid's doing the best it can
with the information it has.
Which is it's just going to drop one cell
at basically all in a column just like
this by default, until we start specifying
where all of our individual cells go.
So it's totally right here with a.
It's going from row one to two,
exactly as we'd expect,
and Grid doesn't know that we
have more columns in mind.
So it stretched this all
the way across the painting.
Let's go to letter b here then.
What are gonna be our values here for
grid-row and grid-column?
>> 1/2.
>> Uh-huh.
>> 1/3.
>> 1/2 and 1/3, okay?
So 1/2 for which one?
The row or the column?
>> Row.
>> Row 1/2.
And the column would be 1/3?
>> There's a few people saying 2/3.
>> Okay, so
take a look at what's happening here.
We set our grid-row, look at a and
b, grid-row is exactly the same and
check out what's happening
here in our display.
So this is one of the really
important grid properties that is not
true of Flexbox,
grid cells can occupy the same space.
So here, based on what we've
said in the chat, we have a and
b occupying exactly the same row.
And they are in fact occupying the same
row, they are on top of each other.
This is a very cool effect, we're gonna
talk a lot more about it later, but
it's not what we want here.
So what would be a better value than for
grid-row, okay?
>> 2/3.
>> 2/3, all right.
2/3, there we go.
So yeah, now that's going to move
this down a little bit more, okay?
And then how about the column?
So here we said 1/3,
it's doing exactly what you'd expect.
It's in our second row.
But now it's pushing across two columns
and c moved up here to the top.
And that's actually what you would expect,
c is going to try to occupy the space
that b might have otherwise left behind.
That is the way grid is going to work.
So c pops on up here, but that's not
exactly the layout that we're looking for.
So what would be a better value for
grid-column for letter b?
>> 2/3.
>> 2/3, Okay?
So we said to 2/3, okay.
So when a is now here
in the upper left but
b is down here in the lower right,
remember this is two and three.
We actually want b to show up over
here starting at line number one,
going to line number two.
So let's change that to 1/2.
All right, so we are back now to what grid
thinks is a single column and that's okay.
Because when we put in letter c,
grid will know that we actually have
more than one column working here.
We have a and b in the same column but
they are in different rows.
All right, so here for letter c then, And
a grid-column, okay?
So now we have letter
c as you can see here,
it is spanning across
some particular area.
So it's definitely going from line
one to line two to line three.
That's our rows.
Okay, so
our grid-row here is going to be 1/3.
Nice, and then it automatically
fills in the space that's over here.
So now grid knows that we
have two columns, kind of.
So it's going ahead and drawing
that in this particular space here.
Our grid-column though,
anybody wanna take a suggestion as to
what our numbers are for our grid-column?
>> 1/2.
>> 1/2 for the column.
Remember, we start here,
here's line one for our column.
Here's line two.
We actually want it over here, don't we?
Any other suggestions?
So.
>> 2/4.
>> 2/4, that's correct because we're gonna
go from two,
remember we're gonna have a line here.
It's this part down here between e and
f, that's line three,
and then line four is
outside of the painting.